# ChessTools
Some chess tools to retrieve chess games of specific openings/years

# How to use 
For the moment it is launched via command lines, try this to see the help manual

    python3 retrieve_games.py -h
    
    -   command : python3 retrieve_games.py
    -   usage: retrieve_games.py [-h] -o OPENING [-m MOVES] [-mc MOVESCOMP] [-y YEAR]
                            [-yc YEARCOMP] [-r RESULT] [-d DEBUG]
                            [-out OUTPUT_FILE]
There are some mandatory arguments to avoid rejecting the query by chessgames website such as 
   
       opening, ECO codes are used to filter on this
       
Optional parameters have some default values 

       -y year of the game is by default 1960
       -yc (year comparison) to filter games after a specific date or before or exactly by default it is greater or equal(ge).
       -m (moves) number of moves by default is 30
       -mc (moves comparison) less or greater or exactly. By default, it is ge
       -r (result) 1-0, 0-1 ,1/2-1/2. if nothing is given it will retrieve the games with various results.
       -d (debug) for debugging by default it is deactivated unless you put -d "something"
       -out to provide an output file. BY default, it will create a local file with name output.txt

# Examples

The output.txt file has been generated by this command

      python3 retrieve_games.py -o C27 -r 1-0 -y 2018

You can also retrieve many opening lines in the same query (check manyopening.txt file)

      python3 retrieve_games.py -o C27+A30+D27 -r 1-0 -y 2018 -out manyopening.txt
      
      >Query to be executed on chessgames.com is: 
      >http://www.chessgames.com/perl/chess.pl?yearcomp=ge&opening=C27+A30+D27&result=1-0&moves=30&year=2018&movescomp=le&
      >20 games are retrieved.
      
     
# Some useful application

     You can use directly the output file to generate studies on lichess.com website (see examples and links below).
     Eco codes can be found here : https://www.365chess.com/eco/B20-B99_Sicilian_defence
     Example :
     https://lichess.org/study/jQXpNb2F ( filtering on B70+B79 : sicilian defence dragon variation )

# Ideas:
     Lichess allows only 20 games per import, so there will be also a feature to split the output file onto many small
     text files of N games each.
     Can be used to generate look alike style in some specific lines and play against it.

# Contact
    If you have any comments, ideas or remarks do not hesitate to contact me on lichess (Talfski)


